README.md, before:

# 💾 Terminal Table Builder 💾

A terminal-based application that allows you to easily build and edit tabular data.

Easily view and edit tables in databases from the terminal.

![App Screenshot](screenshots/Terminal%20Table%20Builder%20SS.png)

## Prerequisites
- Python 3.9+

## Setup
1. **Clone the repository:** `git clone https://github.com/canadaluke888/TerminalTableBuilder.git`
2. **Set up virtual environment:** For Linux and Mac OS, `python3 -m venv .venv`. For Windows, `python -m venv .venv`
3. **Activate virtual environment:** For Linux and Mac OS, `soruce .venv/bin/activate`. For Windows, `.venv/Scripts/Activate`
4. **Install requirements:** `pip install -r requirements.txt`

## Usage


- **Starting the application:** For Linux and Max OS, `python3 main.py`. For Windows, `python main.py`.

## Database
- **Creating a new database:** In the main menu, enter the `database` command. Enter the `create database` command and then name the new database. Your database will automatically be selected as the working database.
- **Deleting a database:** Enter the `delete database` command and then select the database that you want to delete from the list.
- **Selecting an existing database:** Enter the `select database` command and then choose from the list of available databases.
- **Viewing the list of available databases:** Enter the `list databases` command.
- **Closing an active database:** Enter the `close database` command.
- **Viewing the current database:** Enter the `current database` command.
- **Serching the database:** Enter the `search` command and then enter a serch query. It will return information on the location if a match is found.

### Table Builder
- **Building a new table:** In the main menu, enter the `table builder` command. Enter a name for the table. From here you can add data to the table. Remember that the first column added is going to be the heading row each row.
- **Adding a column:** Enter the `add column` command and then enter the name for the heading.
- **Adding a row:** Enter the `add row` command and the program will walk through each heading allowing you to enter data for each cell.
- **Removing a column:** Enter the `remove column` command. Enter the column name.
- **Removing a row:** Enter the `remove row` command. Enter the row index.
- **Editing a cell:** Enter the `edit cell` command. Enter the row index. Enter the column name. Enter the new data that you want in the cell.
- **Printing the table:** Enter the `print table` command.
- **Loading data from a CSV file:** Enter the `load csv` command. Enter the path to the CSV file.
- **Loading more than one CSV file:** Enter the `load csv batch` command. Enter the path to the directory that contains the CSV files. Specifiy if you want to add the CSV files in the subdirectories.
- **Saving data to a CSV file:** Enter the `save csv` command. You will be prompted on if you want to use the name of the table as the name of the CSV file. The CSV file will appear in the root directory of the app.
- **Saving a table to a PDF file:** Enter the `save pdf` command. You will be prompted on if you want to use the table name as the file name. The PDF file will appear in the root directory of the application.
- **Loading a table from the database:** Enter the `load table` command and then select from the list of available tables. Make sure that you have a database selected first.
- **Saving a table to a database:** Enter the `save table` command. The table should be saved to the currently selected database.
- **Viewing the available tables in the database:** Enter the `list tables` command.
- **Clearning the table:** Enter the `clear table` command.
- **Renaming the table:** Enter the `rename` command. Enter the new name for the table.
- **Viewing the JSON data for the table:** Enter the `print table data` command.
- **Exiting the app:** You can you use the `exit` command to exit the application and navigate through the diffrent parts of the app.

### Settings
- **Turning on autoprint:** Once in the settings, you can enter the `autoprint_table` command. You will then be promted if you want to turn autprint on or off. Tunring on autoprint_table will automatically print the table after a change has been made.

Commit message:

Add feature where you can save the table data to a JOSN file.

README.md, after:

# 💾 Terminal Table Builder 💾

A terminal-based application that allows you to easily build and edit tabular data.

Easily view and edit tables in databases from the terminal.

![App Screenshot](screenshots/Terminal%20Table%20Builder%20SS.png)

## Prerequisites
- Python 3.9+

## Setup
1. **Clone the repository:** `git clone https://github.com/canadaluke888/TerminalTableBuilder.git`
2. **Set up virtual environment:** For Linux and Mac OS, `python3 -m venv .venv`. For Windows, `python -m venv .venv`
3. **Activate virtual environment:** For Linux and Mac OS, `soruce .venv/bin/activate`. For Windows, `.venv/Scripts/Activate`
4. **Install requirements:** `pip install -r requirements.txt`

## Usage


- **Starting the application:** For Linux and Max OS, `python3 main.py`. For Windows, `python main.py`.

## Database
- **Creating a new database:** In the main menu, enter the `database` command. Enter the `create database` command and then name the new database. Your database will automatically be selected as the working database.
- **Deleting a database:** Enter the `delete database` command and then select the database that you want to delete from the list.
- **Selecting an existing database:** Enter the `select database` command and then choose from the list of available databases.
- **Viewing the list of available databases:** Enter the `list databases` command.
- **Closing an active database:** Enter the `close database` command.
- **Viewing the current database:** Enter the `current database` command.
- **Serching the database:** Enter the `search` command and then enter a serch query. It will return information on the location if a match is found.

### Table Builder
- **Building a new table:** In the main menu, enter the `table builder` command. Enter a name for the table. From here you can add data to the table. Remember that the first column added is going to be the heading row each row.
- **Adding a column:** Enter the `add column` command and then enter the name for the heading.
- **Adding a row:** Enter the `add row` command and the program will walk through each heading allowing you to enter data for each cell.
- **Removing a column:** Enter the `remove column` command. Enter the column name.
- **Removing a row:** Enter the `remove row` command. Enter the row index.
- **Editing a cell:** Enter the `edit cell` command. Enter the row index. Enter the column name. Enter the new data that you want in the cell.
- **Printing the table:** Enter the `print table` command.
- **Loading data from a CSV file:** Enter the `load csv` command. Enter the path to the CSV file.
- **Loading more than one CSV file:** Enter the `load csv batch` command. Enter the path to the directory that contains the CSV files. Specifiy if you want to add the CSV files in the subdirectories.
- **Saving data to a CSV file:** Enter the `save csv` command. You will be prompted on if you want to use the name of the table as the name of the CSV file. The CSV file will appear in the root directory of the app.
- **Saving a table to a PDF file:** Enter the `save pdf` command. You will be prompted on if you want to use the table name as the file name. The PDF file will appear in the root directory of the application.
- **Saving the table data to a JSON file:** Enter the `save json` command. Specify if you want to use the name of the table as the name for the JSON file. The file will appear in the root directory for the application.
- **Loading a table from the database:** Enter the `load table` command and then select from the list of available tables. Make sure that you have a database selected first.
- **Saving a table to a database:** Enter the `save table` command. The table should be saved to the currently selected database.
- **Viewing the available tables in the database:** Enter the `list tables` command.
- **Clearning the table:** Enter the `clear table` command.
- **Renaming the table:** Enter the `rename` command. Enter the new name for the table.
- **Viewing the JSON data for the table:** Enter the `print table data` command.
- **Exiting the app:** You can you use the `exit` command to exit the application and navigate through the diffrent parts of the app.

### Settings
- **Turning on autoprint:** Once in the settings, you can enter the `autoprint_table` command. You will then be promted if you want to turn autprint on or off. Tunring on autoprint_table will automatically print the table after a change has been made.
